# Introspection Query Management

GraphQL has an [introspection system](https://graphql.org/learn/introspection) that allows users to ask a schema for information about the queries it supports. GraphQL introspection queries can be useful for developers using code generation tools or for implementing build pipelines, but enabling them can expose sensitive information, so it is best practice to [disable them in production](https://www.apollographql.com/blog/graphql/security/why-you-should-disable-graphql-introspection-in-production/).

Brightspot makes it possible to create introspection query rules that allow or block introspection queries based on custom logic. This example demonstrates how to create an introspection query rule that only allows access if a specific HTTP header is passed, serving as a way to control who can make introspection queries.

## What you will learn

1. Create an introspection query rule.
2. Apply the rule to an endpoint.
3. Configure the build pipeline to factor in the rule.

## Running the example application

> **_Note_** Just starting? Refer to the [README](/README.md) at the root of the `react-examples` repository for details on running example applications in depth.

Run the following commands from the `introspection-query-management/brightspot` directory:

### 1. Install dependencies.

```sh
$ yarn
```

```
[1/4] ðŸ” Resolving packages...
[2/4] ðŸšš Fetching packages...
[3/4] ðŸ”— Linking dependencies...
[4/4] ðŸ”¨ Building fresh packages...
âœ¨ Done in 0.78s.
```

### 2. Download Brightspot types.

```sh
$ npx brightspot types download
```

```
ðŸšš Downloading types from http://localhost/cms to brightspot-types...
```

### 3. Upload local types.

```sh
$ npx brightspot types upload src
```

```
ðŸš€ Uploading 5 introspection-query-management-brightspot types to http://localhost/cms...
ðŸŽ‰ Successfully uploaded the types!
```

Run the following command from the `introspection-query-management/app` directory:

### 1. Install dependencies.

```sh
$ yarn
```

```
[1/4] ðŸ” Resolving packages...
[2/4] ðŸšš Fetching packages...
[3/4] ðŸ”— Linking dependencies...
[4/4] ðŸ”¨ Building fresh packages...
âœ¨ Done in 6.03s.
```

## Using the example application

The front end application uses types generated by the [GraphQL Code Generator](https://www.the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen) as part of the build pipeline. GraphQL Code Generator is set up to run introspection queries on the `Introspection Query Management Endpoint` in Brightspot at **Navigation Menu** &rarr; **Admin** &rarr; **APIs** &rarr; **Endpoints** &rarr; **Introspection Query Management**.

Those introspection queries fail if they do not include an `Introspection-Key` header with a value of `correct-value`. To demonstrate this, the front end application is configured to use an incorrect `Introspection-Key` value.

Run the command `yarn codegen` from the `introspection-query-management/app` directory to make the GraphQL Code Generator run the introspection queries. An error message will appear saying the command failed.

Then change the value of `INTROSPECTION-KEY` in the `introspection-query-management/app/.env` file to `correct-value` and run the `yarn codegen` command again. The introspection queries will run and the GraphQL Code Generator will create files that the front end application needs in order to run.

Start the front end application by running the command `yarn start` in the `introspection-query-management/app` directory. The front-end application displays **Song** content created in Brightspot. Publish at least one **Song** and navigate to the front-end application to see the content displayed.

> **_Note_** The front end app's GraphQL API call does not include any API keys or forms of validation because normal queries on the endpoint are completely open to the public.

## How everything works

1. The `ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule` class implements the `IntrospectionQueryRule` interface and the `isAllowed()` method which should return `true` in cases where introspection queries are allowed.

```ts
export default class ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule extends JavaClass(
  'brightspot.example.introspection_query_management.ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule',
  Object,
  IntrospectionQueryRule
) {
  [`isAllowed()`](): boolean {
    return false // blocks all introspection queries
  }
}
```

2. The logic in the `isAllowed()` method compares the value of a header in the introspection query's request to that of the value of the introspection key. The header is named `Introspection-Key` (though any non-reserved header name can be used) and can be accessed through the `WebRequest.getCurrent().getHeader()` method. The introspection key in this example is hard-coded to be `correct-value` for demonstration purposes. Brightspot recommends using a unique, random, and non-guessable value in production environments. The value can also be hidden away using environment variables.

```ts
  [`isAllowed()`](): boolean {
    return WebRequest.getCurrent().getHeader('Introspection-Key') === 'correct-value'
  }
```

3. The `ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule` is applied to the `IntrospectionQueryManagementEndpoint` when the endpoint implements the `getIntrospectionQueryRule()` method and returns a new `ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule` object.

```ts
export default class IntrospectionQueryManagementEndpoint extends JavaClass(
  'brightspot.example.introspection_query_management',
  ContentDeliveryApiEndpointV1,
  Singleton
) {
  // ...

  getIntrospectionQueryRule(): IntrospectionQueryRule {
    const ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule = ClassFinder.getClass(
      'brightspot.example.introspection_query_management.ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule'
    )

    return new ExampleIntrospectionQueryRule()
  }
}
```

4. The front end application uses GraphQL Code Generator to create types and hooks. It is configured with the `codegen.yml` file in the `introspection-query-management/app` directory. The name of the introspection key header is defined here and its value is derived from an environment variable in the `.env` file within the same directory.

`codegen.yml` :

```yml
overwrite: true
schema:
  - ${REACT_APP_GRAPHQL_URL}:
      headers:
        Introspection-Key: ${INTROSPECTION_KEY}
documents: './src/queries/*.graphql'
generates:
  ./src/generated.ts:
    plugins:
      - typescript
      - typescript-operations
      - typescript-react-apollo
    config:
      withHooks: true
```

`.env` :

```
REACT_APP_PUBLIC_HOST=http://localhost:3000
REACT_APP_BRIGHTSPOT_HOST=http://localhost/cms
REACT_APP_GRAPHQL_URL=http://localhost/graphql/delivery/introspection-query-management
INTROSPECTION_KEY=correct-value
```

5. The front end application includes a script in the `package.json` file to run the GraphQL Code Generator with the command `yarn codegen`. This runs the introspection queries using the configuration defined above.

```json
"scripts": {
    "codegen": "graphql-codegen --require dotenv/config --config codegen.yml",
  }
```

The end result is a GraphQL API that is open to the public but with introspection queries available only to internal developers. This provides a layer of security by obscurity.

## Try it yourself

The following is a suggestion for learning more about GraphQL introspection with JS Classes and Brightspot:

1. Try changing the introspection query rule to support multiple keys.
2. Try making the introspection key configurable in Brightspot. Hint: You will need to add a `JavaField` to the endpoint and the introspection query rule.

## Troubleshooting

Refer to the [Common Issues](/README.md) section in the repository README for assistance.
